---
layout: Post
title: "Routines"
contributor: Spencer Vossman
date: 2022-02-12 07:00:00 +0000
tags: 
- Poetry

---
Most nights (except <br />
maybe around the holidays)<br />
some man or disembodied voice <br />
drives by my apartment <br />
and yells something <br />
slurry and guttural:<br />
“FUGGGYOUU WAKEUPPP”<br />
roughly. It’s like clockwork. 

Regardless<br />
I keep the window<br />
open these nights<br />
so I can hear<br />
the outside growls<br />
of engine revs <br />
and imagine<br />
jungle cats rioting<br />
down autobahns.

So I can track<br />
the laborious soar<br />
of fire trucks &mdash;<br />
hulking red-hot missiles <br />
tunneling down<br />
two-lane streets. Listen <br />
to sirens’ echoes<br />
like hellish whale calls <br />
searing through traffic.

So passing cars <br />
begin sounding like <br />
ocean flow &mdash;<br />
an insistent ebb dragging <br />
equal parts sand<br />
and abandonments <br />
back into submergence, <br />
wheels of birth <br />
skidding along the seas. 

<span style="margin-left: 50px">Sounding like</span><br />
the stable whir of passing planes <br />
lifting me up until I’m frequent flyer <br />
16A in economy who<br />
keeps the window<br />
fixed in sight as <br />
the lights below snake out like <br />
lucent roots from some deep <br />
urban tree and <br />
<span style="margin-left: 40px">there it always is:</span><br />
the swoon over <em>my city!</em><br />
adoration for places <br />
I’ll never own a piece of.  

I could stare at the horizon<br />
during reluctant descent,<br />
return to a world I know<br />
both too well and <br />
not nearly enough. 

I could land with a jolt,<br />
step off this vessel,<br />
stop breathing<br />
in the same recycled air <br />
as before. I could quit searching <br />
for stories hidden inside<br />
window screen mesh, dreaming up <br />
folktales from maps of stars <br />
gleaming above. <br />
Lend the drive-by guy<br />
some lasting peace.

I need nothing. <br />
I crave change.
